- Previously on Stargate SG-1.
- The Replicators.
They've launched an
all-out attack on the Goa'uld.
If the Goa'uld can't find
a way to stop them...
the Replicators will easily
overrun our galaxy in a matter of weeks.
Unfortunately...
to get what I need, we're going
to have to dig a little deeper.
We must once and for all
destroy the Goa'uld image as gods forever.
- How?
- By capturing the temple at Dakara.
There's a way to defeat the Replicators...
hidden somewhere
within my memories, isn't there?
You need only
to open your mind to it.
A force of rebel Jaffa have managed
to take control of the temple at Dakara.
Have the fleet disengage their
battle with the Replicators.
Take it back at all costs.
The ruins of an Ancient monument
on a planet now called Dakara.
Within it is the one weapon in this galaxy
capable of destroying me.
A device capable of destroying
all life in the galaxy?
That's what he said.
Ba'al said he was serving Anubis?
Not exactly.
You know those Goa'uld
and their egos.
He would never admit
to being subservient.
No. He said he was biding his time,
learning what he could from Anubis.
Probably looking for a way
to kill him.
Well, we have no idea how
this Ancient device works...
or what the effects will be.
But since Anubis has no real corporeal
form, it's likely he would survive it.
- He'd have no one left to rule.
- For now.
I mean, time may not even be
an issue for someone like him.
He could start over, repopulate
the galaxy to his own specifications.
That's a little ambitious.
He has at least some knowledge of
the Ancients. I wouldn't put it past him.
Yeah. Well, let me sit here
and state the obvious.
We can't let something like this
get into his hands.
Or the Replicators' hands,
for that matter.
How much time do we have before
Ba'al's fleet reaches Dakara?
Why?
Ba'al didn't say exactly
where the device was, did he?
No. He said it was hidden.
Well, chances are it's in the ruins,
but we can't be sure.
I mean, short of blowing up
the entire planet...
we can't be 100% positive
we've destroyed it.
And if it's protected
by a shield...
even our biggest naquadah-enhanced nuke
might not do it.
To be sure we've destroyed the weapon,
we have to find it first.
Go.
We've found no evidence
of a weapon.
Thanks, guys.
We'll take it from here.
But this structure was
definitely built by the Ancients.
As evidenced by the script
on this wall.
Until I saw this monument
with my own eyes...
I did not know that Dakara
was a home of the Ancients.
The Ancient
repository of knowledge...
we found on P3X-439 was hidden
in a large monument like this.
Maybe this writing will help us uncover
the location of the weapon.
I was able
to recognize the language.
Deciphering it, however,
is another matter.
I brought Daniel's notebooks.
This dialect looks very old.
- It may take some time.
- I will leave you to it.
We will be vastly outnumbered
by Ba'al's forces.
I refuse to consider
a strategy...
that demands the deliberate
sacrifice of Jaffa lives.
What then do you advocate?
Prayer, perhaps?
Jaffa.
We are here to consider
the battle with our enemy.
Not battle each other.
Ba'al's forces approach at a rate of speed
far slower than they are capable.
Indeed, it seems he does wish to give us
time to find and destroy the weapon.
Why not just destroy it himself?
Ba'al is in a difficult position.
With so many witnesses,
it is far easier to tell Anubis...
that the weapon was destroyed
before he was able to reclaim Dakara.
How then will he explain
his languid pace?
Regardless, he will only
hesitate so long.
Five Ha'tak.
Eight Al'kesh.
Ten squadrons of gliders.
That is all we have.
Empty the bays.
Deploy the gliders to
the far side of the planet.
Take two Ha'tak and all the Al'kesh...
and position them
on the other side of the moon.
- Divide our forces?
- Precisely.
All of our hardship,
the suffering...
the sacrifices we have made
for our cause will end today...
one way or another.
This battle will decide
the fate of all Jaffa.
This is madness.
So too at one time...
was the very thought
of our freedom.
So now what?
We done?
You got what you wanted.
I don't suppose you wanna just
drop me off at the nearest Stargate?
It is true.
I learned the location of the weapon...
that could be a threat
to me and my brethren.
But I also saw the extent of knowledge
your subconscious mind contains.
You have no idea, do you?
No. No, I don't.
You've tried accessing it, but
it's always just out of reach, isn't it?
I could help you.
We could unlock the
knowledge of the Ancients...
the secrets of the universe together.
I have to admit,
it does sound interesting.
On the other hand,
you're an evil killing machine.
So, no. Pass.
No! Don't do this!
You had the power. You were
about to strike, but she stopped you.
No, I don't believe you.
You can make me see whatever you want.
- That's just a trick.
- You know it's true.
Destroying the weapon
that can destroy me is one thing.
A good thing for me,
but there is more.
There is a way to kill Anubis
in your mind...
and so much more.
I am not done, Daniel Jackson.
Far from it.
In fact, we have only just begun.
"Midday, the darkness is high in the sky"?
- You sure about that?
- That is what it says.
It doesn't make much sense.
Yeah, well, neither does,
"The wind blows on the pillow."
Or, "Three days to the chicken."
But that's what these phrases
apparently translate into.
Are you saying this whole wall
of writing is nonsense?
I don't know what I'm saying.
Is it possible you made a mistake?
Would you care to try?
The text is quite difficult...
and if there is an organizing principle
to Dr. Jackson's notes...
I have yet to discover it.
Yeah. He certainly has his own system.
- Colonel Carter.
- Go ahead, Teal'c.
Have you had any success
with the translation?
We're making some progress.
I am afraid you do not have
much more time.
Our long-range scanners
have detected Ba'al's fleet.
He will be here within the hour.
Understood.
It would be much easier
on both of us if you did not resist.
Why, why, why?
Why in the whole wide world of all things
rational and sane would I help you?
Because deep down,
you also want the knowledge I seek.
But the problem is, anything I learn
I won't be able to put to much use...
because right after I'm done,
you're going to kill me.
What if I promised not to?
Yeah.
Do you really think I am that different
from Samantha Carter?
In that you're a Replicator
bent on galactic domination...
at the expense of
all other living things-
Her thoughts, her memories,
even her emotions-
they are not meaningless to me.
I do not wish to harm you
or destroy Earth for that matter.
I could have done that
already if I so desired.
You're saying
you'll leave Earth untouched?
I promise you that, and your life.
Nope.
Nope, not gonna help you.
But obviously,
I can't do anything to stop you.
So give it your best shot.
What if it's a code?
Something that can
only be deciphered...
by someone who understands
the language.
Can I see that?
- You're holding it upside down.
- I know. I just noticed.
Upside down, these symbols
look like another word I've seen before.
Right-side up, it's "darkness."
Turn it around and...
it translates into "sun."
"Midday, the sun is high in the sky."
That makes a lot more sense.
Yeah. But so what?
That's not what the wall says.
Now it does.
It can't be that simple.
Just turn all five circles
upside down?
No, I agree. It has to be
some sort of combination lock.
We just need to figure out
which circles to turn.
Your pathetic trickery
will only delay your inevitable defeat.
There is no trickery at hand.
We know that, inevitably,
your goal is to eradicate all free Jaffa.
We have sent the bulk of our fleet
to safety to survive to fight another day.
Surrender now, or be destroyed.
Defeat those who remain,
and you'll be forced...
to destroy the weapon
on Dakara yourself.
Then you must face Anubis.
His fleet appears
to be holding position.
For the moment.
Let's hope that's not a bad sign.
Let's go!
Nice goin', Sam.
We're in business.
It's definitely of Ancient design, sir.
Think our bomb will do the trick?
We'll soon see.
Give us 10 minutes.
- Carter out.
- Right.
You might wanna
hold off on that for a minute.
If I'm reading this screen right...
the weapon uses an energy wave...
to reduce all matter
to its basic molecular elements.
It's not strong enough to
disintegrate an entire planet...
but it will wash away everything
on a planet's surface...
and anything in
the surrounding space.
That sounds bad.
I know, but it also sounds like
it does it much the same way...
your disrupter technology
works on the Replicators-
by separating
the individual components.
They are both Ancient design.
And General O'Neill did use
Ancient knowledge to build the disrupter.
I know.
Do you think this weapon can be
modified to work only on the Replicators?
I don't know.
But I'd hate to blow it up...
before I was 100% sure it couldn't.
- Teal'c, do you read?
- Proceed, Colonel Carter.
Look, my dad and Selmak
think this weapon may hold the key...
to defeating the Replicators,
and we'll need some time to find out.
Just let us know when things get bad,
and we'll blow it and get out.
- Understood.
- Carter out.
Ba'al's fleet just began
moving into attack position.
It appears things
are about to get...
bad.
I'm not getting anything.
This may not be possible, you know.
Come on, Sam. It can't be any harder
than blowing up a sun.
You blow up one sun, and suddenly
everyone expects you to walk on water.
There you go.
Well, next up:
Parting the Red Sea.
Shields are down 50%.
We cannot take much more.
Signal the other Ha'tak.
Begin retreating,
sub-light engines only, full power.
The rebels are fleeing, my lord.
The planet is ours.
They expect us to follow so that they may
draw the fleet into battle on two fronts.
- Signal the fleet to pursue the shol'va.
- My lord?
Dakara can wait.
No battle strategy
can save them now.
We will crush them
and then take the temple.
Yes, my lord.
I'm pretty sure this output
is giving us the frequency spectrum...
of the wave the weapon uses
to disintegrate matter.
It's nothing like the spectrum analysis
of the Replicator disrupter wave.
- Here, look.
- Yeah, I know.
But all we have to do is alter
the settings on the weapon console...
so that the output wave matches that
of the disrupter technology.
All we have to do?
The device can be set by varying
the height of these panels.
I can run a program to compare
the difference between the two waves.
It should let us know if we're
going in the right direction.
That's good.
You know, even if
we can make this work...
the Replicators were quickly able to adapt
themselves to the frequency modulation...
Thor made to
the original disrupter wave.
What are you saying?
We realized the only way
to eliminate the Replicators...
and not allow them time
to develop an immunity...
was to somehow hit them all
at the same time.
Everywhere in the galaxy?
How are we supposed to do that?
The weapon translates
through the Stargate.
Do you think Anubis was planning to use
the weapon to attack one planet at a time?
So dial multiple gates simultaneously?
Not multiple gates.
All of them.
Every Stargate in the galaxy
at one time?
Do you know how many gates
there are in the whole galaxy?
A lot.
I have no idea
how to alter a Stargate...
to perform such a function.
I don't know
of anyone who can.
I think I know someone.
- Are you certain, Colonel Carter?
- I don't think we have a choice, Teal'c.
I mean, this could be
the best chance we'll ever get.
Understood.
Opening a channel.
No doubt you have decided
to surrender.
A wise decision, given that
you face imminent defeat.
We have no intention
of surrendering.
I merely wish to inform you that we
have found the Ancient weapon on Dakara.
Do you intend to destroy it?
That would be foolish.
We have learned that
the Ancient weapon...
may be the means to destroy
the Replicators once and for all.
It's incredible.
Yet you still resist me.
Do you not care?
Are you not amazed by what you are seeing?
I don't understand it.
It's more than any human
can begin to comprehend.
- I am not human.
- Believe me, I know.
There must be a limit to
how much your mind can process...
how much information
you can store.
I am sharing what I learn
with my brethren.
The extent of knowledge we can absorb
is only limited by our numbers.
As we speak, those numbers
are growing faster than you can imagine.
This chamber
must be well-shielded.
I could not find it
using my ship's sensors.
Look, I assume
Teal'c told you the plan.
What makes you think you can modify
this weapon to defeat Replicators?
We're already on our way
to doing that.
We need to get
this weapon's wave output...
to match our modified Replicator
disrupter wave to within a margin of.76%.
How did you develop this Replicator
disrupter technology in the first place?
General O'Neill built it using
Ancient knowledge and an Asgard computer.
O'Neill? The mere thought of that
makes me sick.
Look, if we can do this...
and somehow hit the Replicators
all at the same time...
we think it will work,
but we need your help.
You want me to reprogram
a Stargate...
to dial every gate
in the galaxy simultaneously?
I know you used the gate's
automatic update program...
to disseminate a dialing program virus
to the entire gate network.
With a virus you initially
planted in my Stargate.
No one's trying to deny that we're mortal
enemies here. Can you do it or not?
I cannot believe
I am even considering cooperating...
with a female of the Tauri
and a Tok'ra.
This was not my idea,
believe me.
- I'll instruct my troops to land.
- No way.
You send one Jaffa down here,
and the deal's off.
I cannot do what you ask
by means of a hologram transmission.
Sure you can.
Just tell me what to do.
Unscheduled off-world activation.
- Is that Carter?
- No. We are picking up a radio signal.
Put it on speaker.
- Sergeant?
- I don't know, sir.
- What the hell is that?
- I'm not sure, sir.
I can't access the system. Somebody's
hacked into the computer remotely.
- Shut it down.
- I can't, sir. I'm locked out.
Damn!
This is General O'Neill.
Sir!
Evacuate the gate room!
Get out of there!
Close the blast doors.
Initiate base lockdown.
Emergency evacuation of all personnel
through alternate routes.
Self-destruct protocol on my order.
Let's go, Walter.
Get out of here.
- Oh, man.
- Sir.
We're cut off from the self-destruct.
They were too fast.
Even if we can fight through them now,
there's a good chance...
they've already disabled
the activation mechanism.
Those bugs cannot
get out of this mountain.
It's only a matter of time before
they gain control of the base systems...
and override the security doors.
Let's make sure everybody's out of here.
Then we'll toss a nuke down the silo.
- You think that'll stop 'em?
- It should slow 'em down.
You can't handle it, can you?
I can.
I just need time to process...
share it with the others.
Like the universe, it's infinite.
It's not just
knowledge and information.
It's understanding on a level
that you will never reach.
Why do you think that?
Because you're a machine.
So are you,
just of weaker construction.
And that's where you're wrong.
We'll see.
General Hammond says
the president has authorized deployment...
of a 10-kiloton nuclear bomb
on your command, sir.
An emergency state of alert has been
issued, and a 200-square-mile radius...
around Cheyenne Mountain
is currently being evacuated.
A transport helicopter
is waiting on the surface...
for you and the remaining personnel.
Thank you, Walter.
- Colonel.
- We have a problem, sir.
Six SGC personnel
are trapped on Level 8.
They're cut off from
the emergency escape hatch.
Let's go.
You lied to me.
- What?
- You promised you'd leave Earth alone.
There's Replicators
infiltrating the SGC right now.
How can you know that?
While I was in your mind,
you were inside mine.
Took a while to figure out. Fortunately,
you were too distracted to notice.
Some of the Ancient knowledge
really helped too.
- Thank you.
- You tricked me.
You tricked me first.
- You should never have told me.
- Too late.
For you, that is.
Trying to leave? Sorry.
A little more time in Danny's world.
My brethren will not stop.
You cannot control them.
Not yet, but I'm learning.
We rigged the DHD to dial automatically
on signal when the weapon's ready.
- I think it should work.
- Of course it will work.
How dare you doubt me?
- What's he still doing here?
- I can't exactly ask him to leave.
- How's it going on your end?
- I'm getting closer.
This one.
How do you know?
I'm a god.
Gods are all-knowing.
Selmak can't work like this.
Neither can I.
Just try it.
Lucky guess.
- Siler, are you in there?
- Yes, sir.
We're gonna get you out.
Step away from the blast door.
Yes, sir!
Let's get this table over!
Use two of those things.
Sir?
It's a "blast door."
Hang on, Siler.
Fire in the hole.
Down!
Thank you, sir.
- I expect to be put in your will.
- Already in it, sir.
Okay, that's weird.
Crap.
Sensors are picking up
multiple ships exiting hyperspace.
They are firing on Ba'al's forces.
It is the Replicators.
Now this one.
That one took us
in the wrong direction.
All-knowing, huh?
- What's the matter?
- My ships are under attack.
A massive Replicator-controlled fleet
is encroaching on the planet.
- We're running low on ammo, sir!
- Fall back!
Instruct all of our vessels
to target the Replicator ships.
Are we not better off
letting them destroy each other?
If the Replicators should prevail and
gain control of the weapon on Dakara...
all that we have fought for is lost.
General, 15 minutes
to safe detonation conditions.
Yeah, you know, Walter?
Right now...
we're having a slightly difficult time
getting out of here.
Relay this to General Hammond.
The second he can pull the trigger
on that nuke, do it.
- Do you read?
- Yes, sir.
And have that chopper
that's waiting for us leave now.
- Yes, sir.
- Sir?
You see those bugs
go into that hatch?
Yes, sir. Think getting out of the base
is their primary goal?
It's a fairly safe bet.
They're going to the surface.
Leaving the only other way
out of here accessible.
And here.
1.3 2.
We're almost there.
My ship has lost life support
on several levels.
Our shield strength is failing.
I cannot maintain my transmission.
We've almost got it.
Thanks for the help.
Good luck.
- That was just creepy.
- Keep working.
Go!
- Siler, can we dial out?
- I'm working on it, sir.
Ten minutes to detonation.
Shields down!
Weapons systems off-line!
Reroute power to sub-light engines.
Evasive maneuvers.
They are too fast.
We cannot evade them.
- How's it going in there?
- Not well.
Same here.
Grenade!
Variable off by.98.
- What's that?
- Hurry.
I've almost got it.
Just a little more time.
I don't think we have it.
Sorry, sir, I'm trying.
Got you now.
That's odd.
The Replicator ship
just stopped.
Sensors are indicating that
all of the Replicator ships...
have ceased activity.
Colonel Carter, have you successfully
activated the weapon?
Not yet,
but the Replicators down here just froze.
- Dad?
- Almost there!
There are so many, aren't there?
Too many
for your mind to handle.
It's taking all of your concentration
just to control them.
Well, that was
too good to last.
Dad, they're on the move again!
- .76!
- Do it!
Incoming wormhole?
Enemy ship is in range.
It is powering weapons.
We cannot survive another hit.
- Dad.
- I'm all right.
- What happened?
- I don't know.
You did it.
Well, Selmak deserves
a little credit.
Okay, most of it.
All Replicator-controlled ships
are dormant.
Prepare enough squads to board them
and reclaim them in the name of their god.
Yes, my lord.
We are being hailed.
On screen.
Surrender now,
and you will be granted mercy.
You are hardly in any position
to be making such ridiculous demands.
- You are surrounded.
- You are incorrect.
It is, in fact, you
that is surrounded by free Jaffa.
Behold your false god.
- Any more word from Teal'c?
- Yes, sir.
Although Ba'al got away,
the fact that he turned tail and ran...
made the rebel victory
every bit the turning point...
Teal'c and Bra'tac were hoping for.
Jaffa from all over the galaxy
are joining with them.
Well, viva la revolution.
They've got a significant-sized fleet
securing Dakara.
Hopefully, with the weapons
we've provided...
they'll be able to turn the tide
against Anubis's Super Soldiers.
It looks like the Jaffa
might finally win their freedom.
- It's about time.
- Yes, sir.
- I heard from Thor.
- How's he doing?
Great. He sends us all
his congratulations...
and says that
he will drop by for a visit...
as soon as his consciousness
has been downloaded...
from the ship's computer
into a new body.
- That just never gets old, does it?
- Apparently not.
Carter, did you notice...
if the Replicators where you were
happened to...
stop in the middle of everything?
Yeah, it was really strange.
They just...
froze.
It actually bought us the time
we needed to calibrate the weapon.
Any idea why that happened?
You think Daniel
had something to do with it?
I don't know.
Sir, if he was on board
that Replicator ship when-
We don't know anything.
No, sir.
Anything else?